https://netsoltech.com/blog/netsol-to-exhibit-at-the-elfa-annual-convention-2025
Blog
NETSOL to exhibit at the ELFA Annual Convention 2025
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on October 23, 2025
NETSOL is proud to announce our participation as an Exhibitor (Booth 37B) at the 64th Annual ELFA Convention, taking place at the JW Marriott Marco Island Beach Resort in Florida.
Table of Contents
Four decades of global excellence in equipment finance technology
Showcasing Transcend Finance: The future-ready platform for equipment finance
Why ELFA matters and why we’re at the convention
Trusted by leaders. Built for tomorrow.
Connect with NETSOL at the convention
Share this Blog:
As the premier gathering for leaders in the
equipment finance
and leasing industry, this year’s Annual ELFA Convention, taking place from October 26–28, 2025, promises to be a focal point for innovation, collaboration and strategy. We are excited to be part of the conversations that are shaping the industry’s future.
With over four decades of global experience, NETSOL continues to set the standard in equipment finance and leasing technology. As we return to ELFA’s flagship event, we bring not only our history and expertise, but also our forward-looking solutions, designed to meet the evolving needs of finance companies in the digital age.
Netsol has been at the forefront of asset finance and leasing industry for more than 40 years, delivering mission-critical solutions to some of the world’s largest and most complex finance and leasing organizations. From our early beginnings to our current global footprint, our mission has remained clear: to enable our clients to digitally transform their operations, increase efficiency and unlock new value through technology.
We are proud to serve Fortune 500 companies and leading financial institutions across North America, Europe, Asia-Pacific and now even the Middle East, providing cutting-edge solutions that adapt to changing regulations, customer expectations and market dynamics.
Our presence at the 2025 ELFA Annual Convention underscores our commitment to the U.S. equipment finance market, and essentially, to the innovation that will define its future.
NETSOL will be showcasing our proven Transcend Finance platform, an AI-powered solution for
originations
servicing
and
wholesale finance
providing equipment finance and leasing companies with full visibility, smarter decisions and faster outcomes, while futureproofing their operations. Come check out our Transcend Finance platform at Booth 37B!
Designed for the modern finance environment, Transcend Finance brings together:
End-to-end digitalization
from originations to contract management and collections
Configurable architecture
built to adapt to diverse equipment types and financing structures
Cloud-native scalability
with SaaS deployment options for speed and flexibility
AI-powered features
including AI-driven credit underwriting and automation tools
Seamless integrations
with third-party systems and APIs
Compliance-ready frameworks
aligned with U.S. and international regulatory standards
Transcend Finance enables equipment finance and leasing companies to efficiently manage complex multi-site and multi-currency operations, helping them succeed in highly competitive global markets. The technology provides the backbone to drive growth, agility and operational excellence.
The ELFA Annual Convention is the most influential event of the year for leaders in equipment finance and leasing. As the industry faces unprecedented shifts, from digital transformation and
deploying AI in equipment finance
to economic uncertainty and changing customer expectations, the convention offers a critical opportunity to share insights, strengthen relationships and shape the industry’s collective future.
NETSOL will be a part of this event alongside industry innovators, thought-leaders and decision-makers, offering live demos, expert discussions and one-on-one consultations at our booth.
Here’s what you can expect from NETSOL at the convention:
Live demos of Transcend Finance
Experience firsthand how our platform simplifies complexity, drives ROI and empowers data-driven decisions in real time.
1:1 strategy sessions
Connect with our executives to explore how NETSOL’s platform can help you meet your specific challenges.
Industry thought-leadership
We’ll be contributing to conversations around the latest
equipment finance and leasing tech trends
, ESG reporting and next-gen customer experiences, because the future isn’t just digital, it’s intelligent.
We’re not just attending. We’re here to engage.
The ELFA Annual Convention isn’t just a chance to showcase technology – it’s a chance to build relationships, exchange ideas and co-create the future of equipment finance.
NETSOL’s clients include some of the most respected names in finance and leasing. With deployments in over 30 countries and with 12 strategically located support and delivery centers across the world, we bring a level of depth, scale and experience few can match.
Our proven solutions that are part of our unified, AI-powered
Transcend Platform
are built not only to serve today’s needs, but to ensure long-term operational resilience, enabling businesses to scale, innovate and thrive in a world where speed and agility are key.
NETSOL's involvement in the ELFA community extends beyond exhibiting Peter Minshall, NETSOL's Executive Vice President, serves on the
ELFA Business Council Steering Committee
, reflecting the company's active role in shaping the direction of the U.S. equipment finance industry.
If you're attending the ELFA Annual Convention, be sure to visit Booth 37B and explore how our technology can help your business:
Transform operations
Drive new revenue streams
Stay compliant and competitive in a fast-moving market
Our team is eager to connect with equipment finance professionals who are ready to move from legacy to leading-edge. We’re here to help make that journey seamless.
See you in Marco Island!
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence