https://netsoltech.com/blog/how-5g-connectivity-will-impact-finance-and-leasing
Blog
How 5G connectivity will impact finance and leasing
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on April 19, 2023
Discover how brokers are revolutionizing vendor finance and gaining a competitive edge. Learn how modern financing models are shaping the future of the industry
Table of Contents
What is 5G?
Share this Blog:
Every generation of mobile technologies has improved bandwidth, which improve the overall end-user experience. Beyond just enhancing user experiences for the financial and leasing sectors of the spectrum, 5G and future networks will have a significant impact. Leasing and financial services are projected to change due to the adoption of cloud computing as the new standard and an increase in the use of edge computing, virtual reality, augmented reality, and other developing technologies, coupled with 5G. How the finance and leasing industries connect, link, interact, and transact will change due to 5G. In this article, we explore how 5G might affect financial and leasing services in the future.
62%
of financial services institutions were looking to ramp up technology investments, as per survey respondents from an MIT Technology Review Insights Report.
The fifth generation of mobile networks, or 5G, aims to connect practically everything and everyone. To support next-generation applications, such as leasing and financial services, 5G provides more advanced bandwidth technologies. 5G expands the possibilities for connectivity thanks to its rapid speed, excellent dependability, and minimal latency.
Why is 5G Relevant for Financial and Lease Services?
Adopting 5G as a general-purpose technology will open up new opportunities for the swift and straightforward delivery of financial and leasing products and services.
Four key trends will drive what we are witnessing now:
Connected Customer:
Customers are willing to pay more for low-friction, end-to-end, and real-time services.
Data-driven Enterprises:
Due to more frequent consumer interactions, data-driven business models will become more prevalent in the financial and leasing industries. Financial and leasing service providers must securely and effectively handle massive amounts of data in real-time.
Edge and Analytics:
From mere data generators, devices will evolve into linked computing devices. Real-time, ultra-reliable computing and analytics driven by the border will be essential to deliver personalized services.
Security and Fraud Prevention:
Real-time fraud detection will be further enhanced by 5G technology's speed and low latency.
A report from Deloitte titled '5G: The chance to lead for a decade' stated:
Everything we do will be impacted by 5G technology. Through their cell phones, 5G doesn't simply link people together; it also links an infinite number of objects together so that they may communicate constantly. Because of this, the value that 5G can produce is not limited by the number of users or the duration of our information consumption. The potential for technology to affect automation and productivity could have a seismic effect on our macroeconomic system.
5G: The Impact on Financial and Lease Services
In comparison to 4G, 5G will further improve machine-to-machine communication, enabling more devices to connect at once and establish an 'Internet of Things' (IoT). It refers to rented hardware with sensors, transaction processing power, and software that can connect to other systems and devices and share data through the internet.
A considerable increase in connection speed will make it much simpler to supply highly sophisticated services, such as real-time data availability for customers in the finance and leasing industry.
Additionally, it will decrease connection latency, enabling rapid information sharing between mobile devices. In essence, every asset in the field can be connected to a lease company and a funder's IT systems, which can transmit alerts when data changes and instantaneously detect fraud as it happens. These systems communicate 24/7. Additionally, 5G offers more bandwidth, which is crucial for handling the increased data generated by these connected devices for inspection of equipment and secured and fraud-free financial transactions.
There are several ways that 5G could change an economy's finance and leasing services sectors.
Next-Generation Financial Services
Applications and tools could redefine financial services from the next generation of technology. They even sometimes have an impact on digital asset strategies. Blockchain has been used to launch several economic ventures advancing the decentralised finance (Defi) movement and effectively unbundling traditional finance. For a broad range of financial products and services, from regular banking, lending, and borrowing to trading, all aspire to replace centrally managed transactions with peer-to-peer connections. Blockchain also facilitates transactions and develops new markets. The sector will become more efficient because of 5G's increased interconnectivity, which will also impact technology investments.
According to a survey as part of an MIT Technology Review produced in association with Oracle, 62% of financial service respondents had raised their tech spending to increase sales. Financial services have continued to change to quickly deliver client-centricity, foster innovation, combat financial crime, and drive efficiency in this complex, demanding, and highly regulated sector. Financial institutions have therefore remained competitive and relevant.
Emerging use-cases and new mobile applications will also benefit from 5G. The financial services sector will be able to persist in developing and evolving to meet and exceed customer expectations by collaborating with service providers on the adoption of 5G.
The 5G network has enormous potential in financial services. According to PwC, in aggregate, the adoption of 5G will add US$1.3 trillion to global GDP by 2030. While the total impact has been speculated to amount to this whopping figure, it has been estimated that 5G-powered financial services applications will amount to US$85 billion; US$55 billion from improved customer experience, and US$30 billion from fraud prevention measures.
$85 billion
is the speculated figure that 5G-powered financial services applications will amount to in 2030, according to PwC.
Data's Impact on Creating Better Customer Experiences
Enhancing client experiences is one of the most critical digital transformation objectives for finance and leasing companies. It's crucial to consider data's function as these organizations implement digital technology. Devices may connect and share data more quickly because of 5G networks' substantially more powerful speeds than those of 4G LTE.
These hyper-connections can meet clients where they are with the finance and leasing solutions they need, whether it be a loan, opting for a lease, payment program, insurance plan, or something else, with the help of financial and leasing-oriented APIs.
Enhancing client experiences is one of the most critical digital transformation objectives for finance and leasing companies.
Beyond the benefits that are now used and easily imagined, 5G can also enable new experiences to enhance
sustainability in finance
and leasing industry, such as augmented reality (AR) and virtual reality (VR) experiences spanning from immersive customer interactions to virtual trading. Consider asking a finance or leasing professional for advice on obtaining a loan for a first house or contracting a service. Consumers can choose to speak with a hologram advisor in the convenience of their own homes, making it easier than ever for them to seek out professional advice.
Consumers Benefit from 5G in Financial and Lease Services
With richer media communications and faster services, 5G will enhance lease apps and remote fintech. Customer support via chat or virtual assistants will be improved, credit approvals and lease contracts and payments will be expedited, and friction will be reduced. At the same time, mobile payments and transfers will be more secure.
Data Availability with 5G
The rapid expansion of IoT devices will supply financial services companies and leasing service providers with a greater flow of fresh, current, and in-depth information on companies, equipment inspections, and lease operations. Financial institutions can speed up loan approvals, resulting in leasing providers using this information for crucial lease reports and acceptance, and investors being able to base investment decisions on more comprehensive data. Additionally, smartphones will offer biometric data to detect fraud early.
5G to Improve Decision-Making
More data will be processed and stored on the cloud due to 5G and edge computing, enabling considerably more advanced AI and analytics. Data storage will eventually become more affordable and adaptable for finance and leasing service providers as a result of this. By enabling data to flow to the cloud and improving VR communications, 5G will also allow more powerful connectivity across more dispersed geographic locations, enabling more workers in remote locations to access crucial client information and hold virtual meetings with them.
A KEY FACT:
Financial services firms worldwide said they are implementing technologies like cloud computing, encryption, and big data analytics, which will all be improved by 5G, according to a study from the World Economic Forum (WEF).
The 5G Rollout
The fifth-generation mobile network, or 5G, is a wireless technology that provides dependable, high-data-capacity connections with low latency. The global rollout of 5G networks has been somewhat delayed. However, by the end of May 2022, the
Global mobile Suppliers Association
(GSA) identified that 493 operators in 150 countries and territories were investing in 5G, inclusive of trials, acquisition of license's, planning, network deployments and launches. This number excludes nearly 200 additional companies awarded spectrum in the US CBRS PAL auction, which could potentially be used for 5G. Further, of those, 214 operators in 85 countries and territories had launched one or more 3GPP-compliant 5G services. 205 operators in 80 countries and territories had launched 5G mobile services.
North America, North-east Asia, and Western Europe are speculated to use 5G the most. Banks and finance and leasing companies must seek to match their digital transformation strategy with the potential of the 5G era as more nations and regions adopt this technology.
While it will still take time for it to have an impact, 5G is likely to change the way that customers interact with financial and leasing services institutions. Reports state that 71% of financial service providers claim to be starting rollouts within the next 18 months, while 45% of survey respondents believe that their organization is rushing to install 5G commercially.
Market Outlook
The adoption of 5G subscriptions is more rapid than that of 4G. According to an Ericsson Mobility Report, 5G subscriptions are to top 2.6 billion by the end of 2025 and account for 45% of global mobile data traffic. Although COVID-19 halted additional launches and market growth in several regions, the future looks bright.
The widespread use of 5G communication networks in conjunction with other connection options will enable the Fourth Industrial Revolution's positive effects and those of linked new technologies to be fully realized. A wide range of options will become available due to 5G's major functional drivers, including improvements in service delivery, decision-making, and end-user experience.
Final Thoughts
Finance and leasing organizations can greatly enhance their operations thanks to 5G. Although it is impossible to predict when this will become ubiquitous, the 5G rollout is already well underway in the United States and Europe.
Leasing and other financial service providers should put their efforts into building the necessary infrastructure to be 5G ready and comprehending how 5G will alter their business models. It's challenging to fathom the scope of the overall global impact of 5G. However, as earlier mentioned, PwC speculates that by 2030, the adoption of 5G will add US$1.3 trillion to global GDP.
$1.3 trillion
will be added to global GDP via the adoption of 5G by 2030, according to PwC.
NFS Ascent: NETSOL's Premier, Modern Technology Platform for the Global Finance and Leasing Industry
An
asset finance platform
for the evolving global asset finance and leasing industry, Ascent enables banks, automotive and equipment finance and leasing companies worldwide to manage their
digital retail solutions
and
wholesale finance software
business seamlessly. It is designed to empower finance and leasing companies with a platform that supports their growth in terms of business volume and transactions.
References
https://www.world-leasing-yearbook.com/feature/the-new-financial-frontier-how-digital-banks-and-fintech-pose-a-threat-to-traditional-financial-institutions-in-the-united-kingdom/
https://www.rcrwireless.com/20200528/network-infrastructure/mobile-operators-5g-deployment
https://www2.deloitte.com/content/dam/Deloitte/us/Documents/technology-media-telecommunications/us-tmt-5g-deployment-imperative.pdf
https://www.statista.com/chart/23194/5g-networks-deployment-world-map/
https://data.gsmaintelligence.com/research/research/research-2020/2025-capex-outlook-2020-update-the-1-trillion-investment
https://gsacom.com/paper/5g-market-snapshot-june-2022/
https://www.oracle.com/a/ocom/docs/applications/mit-big-moves-finserv-report.pdf?lb-mode=overlay
https://www3.weforum.org/docs/WEF_Future_of_Jobs_2020.pdf
https://www.weforum.org/whitepapers/the-impact-of-5g-creating-new-value-across-industries-and-society
https://www.ft.com/partnercontent/comarch/5g-networks-will-change-the-way-we-bank.html
https://www.ericsson.com/en/reports-and-papers/mobility-report/dataforecasts/mobile-subscriptions-outlook
https://www.ericsson.com/en/press-releases/2/2019/11/ericsson-mobility-report-5g-subscriptions-to-top-2.6-billion-by-end-of-2025
https://www.ericsson.com/en/press-releases/2019/11/ericsson-mobility-report-5g-subscriptions-to-top-2.6-billion-by-end-of-2025
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/industries/technology/publications/economic-impact-5g.html
https://www.pwc.com/gx/en/tmt/5g/global-economic-impact-5g.pdf
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence