https://netsoltech.com/blog/game-changing-aws-services-for-businesses
Blog
The Game Changing AWS Artificial Services You Can’t Ignore
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on April 4, 2023
NETSOL offers an in-depth analysis based on your architectures and workflows to provide the most optimal recommendations and offers services for your businesses.
Table of Contents
Understanding the World of Artificial Intelligence
Important to Note for Businesses Ready to Adopt AI Solutions
How Amazon Uses Artificial Intelligence to Empower Businesses
Maximizing the Customer Experience
Utilizing Predictions to Drive Business Outcomes
Share this Blog:
In recent times, the concept of artificial intelligence has been sensationalized to new heights, especially through movies like Ex Machina, The Terminator, The Matrix and many others which have fast become pop culture. This led many businesses to believe it to be a part of some sci-fi world with little to no application in the real world.
The truth runs much deeper. Artificial Intelligence and AWS Machine Learning services are essential to businesses and have fast become crucial for them to survive today. Are AWS and AI related to any specific industry? The good news is that AWS ML services positively and significantly impact businesses irrespective of the industry they are operating in.
Today, AI, AWS, and ML are no longer buzzwords but powerful tools that allow organizations to reach new heights of productivity and innovation. They promise to scale up businesses while optimizing processes. Amazon Web Services products can conveniently implement the array of features of Artificial Intelligence, ensuring experiences vital for horizontal and industry use cases.
Are AWS AI services only for tech giants or seemingly well established businesses? There is some truth to it however, the application of artificial intelligence can be elasticized over the size and requirement of your business. This customizable application offers unlimited opportunities that come with the Amazon AI platform – from transcribing text and images to gathering and identifying information.
“Artificial Intelligence can help businesses unveil hidden insights from the data, improve the workflow and KPI effectiveness, automate, and augment the decisions.”
Alexander Konduforov, AltexSoft
The Machine Learning Engineer and Data Science Competence Leader at AltexSoft, Alexander Konduforov, shared that AI will undoubtedly have a transformational impact on businesses just like computers and software had decades ago. He further added that AI can help businesses by unveiling hidden insights about their operations from the data, improving workflow and KPI effectiveness, and augmenting and automating decisions. AI-based systems can help employees make their job better or much faster.
Therefore, irrespective of industry, AI can change the way businesses used to work. Check out “Use Cases & Benefits of AI for Insurance Industry” for more insight on this topic.
The benefits of harnessing the power of AI have proved to show significant results on the bottom line of businesses.
A recent study conducted by McKinsey Global evaluated that AI adopters have experienced a 3 to 15% higher profit margin, positively impacting their bottom line. Supporting the said study, Deloitte Insights showed organizations that invest in AWS AI services can expect a 10% to 40% return on investment.
If you are planning to invest in AWS AI services, here are a few things you must know:
Company growth projection over the span of a few years
Identifying the pain points that are hindering you from reaching that goal
Understanding the predictions that can help your enterprise achieve the goal
Evaluating whether an AWS Partner Network (APN) like NETSOL can help in Amazon Artificial Intelligence adoption
Devise a comprehensive strategy for implementation
These numbers offer great insight for anyone that requires a gentle nudge towards adopting Amazon Web Services products to uplift their organization.
With the Amazon AI platform, businesses can power the emergence of new technologies, surpassing the capabilities of existing systems while utilizing aggregating data, scalability, integration, and analysis.
Today, experts agree that Amazon powers the broad set of AWS Machine Learning services while solving different business problems. However, the choice of solutions depends on business challenges and needs pertaining to each business. For instance, AWS Forecast for financial planning and sales can now work without the prediction of ML knowledge. Amazon SageMaker, on the other hand, offers an advanced tool that facilitates ingenious types of AI solutions and automates the overall workflow.
Here are two ways businesses can harness the power of AWS Artificial Intelligence services.
By tapping into this tech, businesses can optimize the overall customer experience. They can either offer a personalized customer journey or automate content moderation. This can improve the quality of scientific or medical analytics, manage the forecasting demand accurately, and progress towards cost-effective solutions.
Honestly, the possibilities are endless! And it depends entirely on your business requirements and organizational goals. By maximizing the customer experience, you can expect the following:
Sophisticated video and image analysis
Virtual assistance
Personalized business recommendations
Forecasting without deep expertise in Machine Learning
Mimicking complex human-like functionality
LETS CONNECT!
With AI solutions, businesses can quickly analyze their existing data, spot trends, and patterns, and make better and more informed decisions to stay ahead, positively impacting the bottom line.
Making predictions involves the usage of data gathered and produced. This can inform the forecast and reshape the organizational historical data in time. Through predictive data, businesses can generate valuable insights and tap into hidden reserves for growth.
With AWS AI services, enterprises can drive innovation and become financially accessible with ease.
Check out our latest blog on “AWS and ML Services Revolutionizing Businesses Today” for more guided information on how both these phenomenal services can alter the future of your business.
AWS New Products Making AI Accessible to All
The new offerings from AWS cover three areas where artificial intelligence can be made more accessible:
Easier to Build
Apps that take advantage of AI have historically demanded developers working in more conventional contexts to create. While Java is the de facto enterprise language, surprisingly few resources are available for developing deep learning applications, whereas Python is still widely used. Because of this, creating deep learning applications requires a lot of extra work for Java programmers in deciphering and rewriting existing code.
Improved Scalability
Deploying AI is more complicated than writing code. Choosing an algorithm still relies heavily on trial and error and a wide breadth of expertise in the relevant areas. Because of this, AWS has new products that make AI easier to understand and explain while shortening the time required to train, deploy, and scale applications.
Enhanced Application
Making machine learning more tangible to business and IT decision-makers and easier to implement is a top priority. For this purpose, AWS introduced a machine-learning-based business search engine that is accurate and simple. The AWS AI platform can also analyze source codes through automated tools.
AWS and Artificial Intelligence – The Dawn of Modern Businesses
AWS AI services are powerful enhancers in modern times, and every business, regardless of size and industry, must consider them.  r, they are changing the way enterprises operate today
In unison, AWS AI services are revamping the avenues in which enterprises are operated today.
In case of ambiguities regarding the incorporation of AWS AI services and its alignment with your business, NETSOL offers an in-depth analysis based on your architectures and workflows to provide the most optimal recommendations and offers services for your businesses.
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence