https://netsoltech.com/blog/factors-to-consider-when-smes-migrate-to-cloud
Blog
Factors to Consider When SMEs Migrate to the Cloud
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on December 14, 2022
Cloud migration moves applications and other IT activities to a cloud computing environment.
Table of Contents
What is A Cloud Migration?
Determine Your Goals
Choose Your Cloud Migration Partner
Assess Workflow Readiness to Define Your Migration Strategy
Plan the Migration
Assure Compliance
Managing the Workload on the Cloud
Rinse and Repeat
Migrate with NETSOL’s Cloud Services
Share this Blog:
Cloud computing can result in significant changes for small businesses. Many of today’s small-business owners have taken notice of these shifts, from Silicon Valley’s tech companies to mom-and-pop stores in cities and small towns. Over the past decade, interest in cloud computing has exploded due to its numerous benefits for enterprises.
Over the past few years, moving to the cloud has experienced tremendous global adoption. However, because of the recent trend toward remote labor, businesses are now more dependent than ever on cloud services and apps.
90% of businesses now work with one or more cloud service providers to achieve their goals, according to a study by 451 research.
While the
advantages of cloud migration
—lower expenses, streamlined processes, and quicker application rollout—are alluring, small businesses must research to ensure they can reap these advantages while reducing the dangers and cloud migration costs. A detailed understanding of legacy and cloud expenses will enable the determination of return on investment and the setting of priorities. A well-planned, well-documented, and secure cloud migration can help you keep your transfer on schedule and within your budget. A company’s success or failure may depend on its choice of cloud partners.
Cloud migration moves applications and other IT activities to a cloud computing environment. Application and data migration from premise-based, legacy infrastructure (such as servers) to centralized cloud services hosted by a vendor or cloud provider is typical for small organizations using the cloud.
According to research by International Data Group, 70% of businesses have already embraced cloud technology in some capacity. Evidence suggests that companies adopting cloud technology expand 50% more quickly than their competitors.
Steps towards a Successful Cloud Migration
Moving to the cloud takes time and resources. A successful transition depends on careful planning, setting priorities, and making well-informed decisions at every stage.
The following are the essential factors to take into account for successful cloud migration:
Company executives will back only a strategy for cloud migration with a strong business case. The potential return on investment for transferring each application should be very evident to small enterprises.
One common misconception about cloud services is their cost. However, cloud migration costs are considerable – they cover all costs associated with the cloud provider, such as personnel, upkeep, electricity, and real estate. It’s crucial to create a similar, comprehensive cost picture of the current legacy infrastructure when estimating the ROI for cloud migration.
After analyzing your company’s goals and expected outcomes, choosing a cloud migration partner is the next step. Because your migration partner assists you in organizing the last steps, you’ll save time, money, and effort.
For most small businesses, choosing the correct cloud migration partner is crucial. Finding a partner that most closely matches your company’s needs is crucial because each has unique talents and resources.
There are  several different migration strategies your business can take  for a secure cloud migration. Assessing workflow readiness will help you decide which solution is appropriate for your company.
Ensuring the workflows best suited for the cloud are implemented requires evaluating workflow readiness. It will assist your company in determining which workflows can be hosted on the cloud and which ones may need to remain on-premise. A workflow readiness study can also help you decide whether internal processes or workflows need to be improved to move to the cloud. Work methodically from department to department and workflow to workflow to make sure you catch any cloud-ready applications.
With the incredible technological advancements, many businesses need to lay out a precise and thorough plan for the migration process before migrating their data to the cloud. This lack of analysis may lead to downtime, mistrust, and higher costs.
IT professionals should select how to implement these processes after defining the services they will be migrating, the data sequence, and the architecture as part of the cloud migration planning process. The planning phase is one of the most critical assessments to carry out a successful and sustainable transition that can be conveyed throughout the company and to its stakeholders.
Cloud migration security is a must! There is reasonable probability that your organization is subject to a burdensome number of regulations, regardless of the industry it serves. New laws are routinely passed, and existing ones are frequently changed. There are severe repercussions for disregarding these standards, including possible civil and criminal penalties.
Actively managing workloads on the cloud is necessary to avoid unpleasant financial surprises. You will be shocked, but if you actively manage your finances, you can limit the shocks to a few days’ expenses. Your shocks will be the equivalent of one or more months’ worth of spending if you passively manage.  In fact, by moving internal data center facilities to a public cloud service provider, firms can, on average, save 40% to 50% of their regular IT operating expenditures. It may make you question the entire justification for your strategic move to the cloud.
You can find more optimizations for cloud operations and each of the factors discussed above by actively monitoring your workloads. And those improvements are essential for determining your return on investment for this effort and for making wise judgments about future cloud migrations, one workload at a time.
You’ll want to repeat your move to the cloud strategy once it has proven successful for one or a few workloads. Or you’ve found that moving many of your present and prospective workloads to the cloud isn’t economical.
Consider the scenario where you currently have a lot of workloads on a legacy database vendor. In that instance, transferring workloads to the cloud may present various challenges. Before moving to the cloud, you need to remodel or reimagine much of your data processing infrastructure.
The benefit of going through a process like this for a single or a small number of workloads is that after you have done so, you will have learned a lot that you did not previously know.
Your workloads can be moved to the cloud from almost any source by the Cloud Services team at NETSOL. Processes can be made simpler and business interruption can be reduced or even eliminated by using proven tools, technology, regular communication, and methods of procedures (MOPs).
The NETSOL Cloud Services team can handle all data migration processes, including evaluating application cloud readiness, choosing and carrying out the best migration approach, and developing a post-migration plan, depending on your particular needs.
For more details,
connect with us!
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence