https://netsoltech.com/blog/the-booming-lease-management-software-market
Blog
The Booming lease management software market
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on December 6, 2022
Explore the growing demand for lease accounting and management software, its benefits for businesses, and how SaaS is transforming the industry. Explore Now!
Table of Contents
What is Lease Management Software?
Share this Blog:
Lease accounting and management software is increasingly used for various purposes such as accessing, managing, storing, and tracking lease data across various or single organizational units and asset types. As a result of growing demand, the market for lease accounting and
asset finance software
continues to increase in size.
Research Dive's analysis had projected that the global lease management market will create $6,252.3 million in revenue by 2027, expanding quickly at a CAGR of 6.7% over the forecasted period of 2021-2027.
The lease management software industry will see a huge change in how processes are executed, owing to integrating intelligent systems, AI and ML into lease management software.
To remain profitable and continue growing, companies must streamline operations, cut costs wherever possible, and allocate resources more efficiently. That's where lease accounting and management software comes in. These systems can help businesses track lease agreements, avoid unnecessary expenses, and meet financial obligations on time. Read more about how lease management software can benefit your company - and what you should look for.
Lease management software helps companies track their lease agreements from start to finish and manage their financing obligations. It's an essential tool for any organization that leases assets including equipment and vehicles. Leasing allows companies to acquire the equipment they might not otherwise be able to purchase outright. The owner of the contract - usually the leasing company - leases the equipment to the company for a fixed period. The lessee then makes regular lease payments during the contract duration. When the contract expires, the lessee can purchase or return the equipment to the leasing company.
To remain profitable and continue growing, companies must streamline operations, cut costs wherever possible, and allocate resources more efficiently.
lease servicing solution
can help you track and seamlessly manage all of your lease agreements, as well as manage payments and other obligations. Lease management software gives your organization a competitive advantage by delivering a unified view of your assets. It gives transparency and insight into your data leading to better decision-making so you can manage every aspect of your portfolio.
Why is Lease Management Software Becoming So Popular?
The introduction of cloud computing is one of the biggest developments in the IT industry. This technology impacts software applications' functionality, delivery, and accessibility to client companies. The growing adoption of cloud services has encouraged many organizations to adopt cloud-based lease management and accounting software.
The increasing adoption of the
SaaS (Software-as-a-Service) model
for better lease management and developing technologies like AI (Artificial Intelligence), IoT (the Internet of Things) and flexibility for real-time data evaluation are boosting the popularity and demand for lease management software.
$6,252.3m
is the forecasted revenue figure for the global lease management market by 2027.
Surge in Adoption of Lease Management Software
Lease management and accounting software is becoming more popular owing to its ability to recede the number of manual tasks, which are generally needed to adhere to standard requirements. There is notable growth in the adoption of lease management software to achieve high levels of precision in financial reporting and prevent any manual errors. Players in the lease accounting and management software market focus on developing platforms that fulfill all legal and regulatory lease accounting calculation needs.
The Blooming Landscape
The best lease management software for finance and leasing businesses including equipment leasing, automotive leasing, big ticket leasing and finance companies are also being modernized by providers concentrating on this market area. Additionally, businesses are creating cutting-edge platforms that provide various benefits, such as free chat support and seamless management of processes. Because they can reduce the amount of human effort and intervention often required to meet standards, lease accounting and management software are becoming increasingly popular.
Lease Management Software Market: Segmentation Analysis
The lease management software market is segmented based on product and application.
Lease Management Software Market, By Product
Depending on the product, the market is further divided into cloud-based and on-premise. In recent years, the marketplace has been dominated by the cloud-based lease management software segment, which held the biggest market share. Several advantages over on-premise are driving up demand for cloud-based products. Additionally, businesses can access software and services anytime, thanks to cloud-based lease management and accounting software. There is no need for internal servers and IT infrastructure because the solution is based on the cloud and the internet, which saves energy and other costs.
Lease Management Software Market, By Application
The market is segmented into large enterprises and SMEs based on the application segment. Because leasing management and accounting software makes the cost more bearable for large organizations, the category of large businesses dominates the industry and holds the largest market share. Additionally, some bigger consulting firms utilize software to track their credit and lease agreements with smaller companies. This software benefits medium-sized organizations due to its rising acceptance and appeal.
The Emergence of New Technologies
The lease management software industry will see a huge change in how processes are executed, owing to integrating intelligent systems, artificial intelligence and machine learning into lease management software. Using
generative ai
and chatbots leads to improved services and automated maintenance workflows.
Chatbots, machine learning and the integration of voice technology will significantly change how transactions in commercial lease management software systems are carried out. For example, voice technology can make searches easier and we can pay bills through voice commands. Likewise, maintenance requests, complaints and other service requests can be placed using voice commands.
$9b
is the expected value the global lease management market will expand to by 2031.
Rise in the Demand for Software-as-a-Service (SaaS)
Many businesses today are eager to operate their lease software on the cloud rather than on conventional servers. The SaaS model's rising popularity among businesses in equipment, automotive and other types of leasing and financing seeking cost-effective remote access is anticipated to fuel growth in the worldwide lease management market.
Penetration of IoT and Other Technologies
Technologies such as the Internet of Things, advanced analysis, mobility, SaaS and artificial intelligence are increasingly being prompted on the market, enabling greater demand than ever before for business integration, and in return, influencing the implementation of lease management software across industries.
Market Overview
According to Allied Market Research, the global lease management market, which was valued at $4.6 billion in 2021, is expected to expand to $9 billion by 2031, with a compound annual growth rate (CAGR) of 6.9% from 2022 to 2031. The lease management sector is rapidly expanding due to the ability of lease management systems to track your company's performance consistently with real-time data accessibility. The global lease management software market has witnessed strong growth owing to the surging adoption of software, growing adoption of cloud-based lease management software and growing internet penetration worldwide.
The lease accounting and management software market is anticipated to grow as it becomes more widely used in equipment and automotive leasing, big ticket leasing, healthcare, media and entertainment, government, retail and e-commerce, and the travel and hospitality industries to manage their financing commitments and keep track of their lease arrangements.
For more than 40 years, NETSOL has proudly provided recognized leasing organizations, including bluechip and Fortune 500 companies, with unrivalled, cutting-edge software and technology.
Future Outlook
As discussed above, one of the vital innovations in the software sector is the adoption of cloud computing, which is fueling the lease management market. Numerous software companies have been able to concentrate more on technological advancements in lease accounting and management software solutions because of the focus on the cloud. Customers who use Software-as-a-Service solutions have the freedom to stop using their services whenever they want and only pay for what they use. As previously stated, according to Allied Market Research's analysis, the market for leasing management software was estimated to be worth $4.6 billion in 2021 and is anticipated to expand to $9 billion by 2031.
The growing trend of workplace flexibility is also expected to fuel the demand for
loan origination software
, auto lease management software, and retail lease management software in the present and future.
Conclusion
When selecting the right lease management software, you'll want to choose a solution that meets your company's unique needs. You may consider price, scalability and integrations when choosing a solution. For more than 40 years, NETSOL has proudly provided recognized leasing organizations, including bluechip and Fortune 500 companies, with unrivalled, cutting-edge software and technology. For financial institutions with expanding and varied business requirements globally, NETSOL's scalable solutions serve leasing organizations worldwide.
It is also available on the Cloud via flexible, subscription-based pricing, rapid deployments and the ability to scale on demand. You can also
Contact Us
for more information or to schedule a consultation.
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence