https://netsoltech.com/blog/aws-and-ml-services
Blog
AWS and ML Services Revolutionizing Businesses Today
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on November 16, 2022
Utilizing HealthLake, healthcare practitioners may store, convert, query, and analyze data in the AWS Cloud.
Table of Contents
AWS Machine Learning Apps and Use–Cases
Amazon Augmented AI
Use–cases
Amazon Comprehend
Amazon Forecast
Amazon Fraud Detector
Amazon HealthLake
Amazon Polly
Conclusion
Share this Blog:
Since AWS started its journey in the Cloud market, it has served many industries from different sectors. These include banking, finance, government organizations, and many more. AWS applications today are used in the IT sector for many other things, including IT infrastructure services. Everyone uses AWS apps extensively, from small businesses to massive corporations. While on the other side, Machine Learning is a game-changing trending technology because of the high level of automation in our economy; companies implementing these cutting-edge technologies with the proper execution benefit 5x to 7x in profits. It is how businesses run today. They solely depend on data to make better decisions. The more they understand the power of technologies and implement them, the more they flourish.
Today, AWS or Amazon Web Services is the most renowned cloud computing platform for businesses worldwide. Through integration, AWS apps are crucial for protecting, creating, and storing sensitive data. Numerous clients with various cloud requirements utilize Amazon Web Services. AWS apps perform better since they provide tailored solutions to meet the demands of the industry.
How businesses function today has transformed due to cloud computing, something that was not speculated some years ago.
“The global Cloud Computing market is to reach USD 1,712 billion by 2029, with firms including AWS, Microsoft Azure, and Google Cloud stepping up the battle, as per Fortune Business Insights.”
Let’s talk about the leading AWS Machine Learning applications and their use–cases transforming how organizations operate today.
AWS AI (Artificial Intelligence) and ML (Machine Learning) services have changed the paradigm of traditional business processes into a more efficient, reliable, easy-to-scale, and productive modern business. AWS modern data strategy applications that are revolutionizing the modern industry are mentioned below in detail.
Amazon Augmented AI is an ML service that makes building the workflows required for human review easy. All developers may now use decision-making thanks to Amazon A2I, which also eliminates the undifferentiated laborious work involved in creating human review systems or maintaining a significant number of human reviewers, regardless of whether it runs on AWS.
Healthcare:
Prescriptions, medical insurance claims, intake forms, and many other documents related to healthcare include vital information that must be swiftly and accurately retrieved. You can now process documents, extract data, and have a human examine the crucial data using Amazon A2I and Amazon Textract.
Financial Services:
Millions of data points are present in tax returns, loan or mortgage applications, and many other financial documents. These data points must be rapidly and efficiently handled. You may extract crucial information from these forms using Amazon Textract and Amazon A2I.
With Machine Learning, Amazon Comprehends natural language processing (NLP) service can find meaningful connections and insights in text. The service recognizes the language of the text, extracts important words, locations, people, brands, or events, determines if the material is excellent or negative, analyses text using tokenization and parts of speech, and automatically groups a group of text files by topic. Amazon Comprehend is a widely used
AWS data architecture
to extract insights and connections about users.
Call Center Analytics: Automatically classify incoming support requests, evaluate customer interactions, and gauge customer mood. Utilize the information from client surveys to enhance your offerings.
Index and Search Product Reviews: By allowing your search engine to index important phrases, entities, and emotions in addition to keywords, you can place more emphasis on context.
Forecast business outcomes efficiently and accurately using Machine Learning. Amazon Forecast is Machine Learning-based time-series forecasting tool designed to study business KPIs
ML Forecasting to Your SaaS:
Improve SaaS product capabilities by adding integrated ML-based predictions to find intricate demand linkages.
Optimize Product Demand Planning:
Utilize historical sales and demand data together with related site traffic, price, product category, weather, and holiday data to forecast inventory requirements for specific stores.
Managing Resources:
Productivity and customer satisfaction will increase because of precise, near-real-time resource requirement forecasts.
With Machine Learning and more than 20 years of fraud detection experience from Amazon, Amazon Fraud Detector is a fully managed service that helps clients detect online fraud faster with Machine Learning.
Identify Suspicious Online Payments:
By identifying unusual online payment transactions before processing payments and completing purchases, Amazon Fraud Detector lowers the incidence of online payment fraud.
Detect New Account Fraud:
Another use of Fraud Detector is to reliably differentiate between legal and high-risk account registrations so you can choose whether to implement further checks, such as phone or email verification.
Healthcare providers, health insurance providers, and pharmaceutical firms can utilize AWS AI and ML services to execute their tasks. Amazon HealthLake, one of the AWS Services, is a HIPAA (Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act) eligible service, to store, convert, query, and analyze massive amounts of health data.
Health information is usually unreliable and contradictory. Additionally, it is frequently unstructured and contains data in a time-series form, with physician notes, lab results, insurance claims, and medical photographs (for example, heart ECG or brain EEG traces).
Manage Population Health:
Utilize cutting-edge analytics tools and ML models to analyze population health patterns, forecast outcomes, and control expenditures.
Improve Care Quality:
Amazon HealthLake uses a comprehensive timeline picture of a patient’s medical history to locate opportunities to fill care gaps and implement preventative measures.
Amazon Polly converts text into authentic voice. You may construct completely new categories of speech-enabled products thanks to Amazon Polly, which enables you to design apps that talk. An Amazon Artificial Intelligence service, Amazon Polly creates speech that mimics human speech using cutting-edge deep learning algorithms. An extensive collection of realistic voices in several languages is available on Amazon Polly. Using the perfect agent, you can create speech-enabled applications that function in several nations.
Content Creation: A complementing form of media to written and visual communication is audio. You may give your audience a different manner of consuming information and satisfy the demands of more extensive readership by ‘speaking your content’. With the ability to produce speech in several languages, Amazon Polly makes it simple to include voice into applications with a worldwide audience, including RSS (Really Simple Syndication), feeds, webpages, or movies. It is one of the most used AWS Machine Learning use–cases.
Online Learning: With the help of Amazon Polly, developers can give their applications a better visual experience by adding features like karaoke-style word highlighting or speech-synchronized face movement. It is simple to ask for an extra stream of metadata from Amazon Polly that details the exact times that specific phrases, words, and sounds are uttered. Customers may animate avatars and highlight text in their app that is being said by using this metadata stream in conjunction with the audio stream for the synthesized voice.
At
, we believe that our clients must adopt digital transformation and AWS modern data strategy led solutions to support their long-term business aims and get ready for the digital future enabled by server-less computing and ML-empowered models. With the adaptability of pay-per-use solutions and the prevalence of cloud-based digital solutions, digital adoption no longer needs to be expensive. It offers even more significant cost efficiencies in the long–run.
Over the past years, NETSOL Technologies has partnered with global cloud technology leaders such as Amazon Web Services to enable businesses to use pre-packaged solutions to revolutionize modern business processes.
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence