https://netsoltech.com/blog/practices-to-follow-efficient-cloud-transition
Blog
Top 3 Practices to Follow for Efficient Cloud Transition
By
NETSOL Technologies
, on October 24, 2022
Cloud computing is an emergent technology, becoming a buzzword across all industries. It's a state-of-the-art moving on-premises computing technology to the internet, saving cost and time simultaneously
Table of Contents
Main Transition Challenges in Cloud Computing
Summing Up
Share this Blog:
Transitioning to cloud computing has been a challenge for many businesses for the past few years. Extra costs, extreme choices, and a shortage of skilled people to guide the transition stops organizations in their tracks. However, following appropriate ways can help in efficient cloud transition in no time. Organizations need to finalize the perfect cloud computing partner, analyze the costs, and get stakeholders on the same page. It will help them get through every obstacle with ease.
There was a time when most businesses ran their on-premise hardware servers, managing their own IT infrastructure. However, the pandemic made some unique adjustments. Modern companies and IT experts are replacing legacy technology with scalable, cost-effective cloud computing solutions. They are finally embracing the change that was due for years!
It is not the strongest of the species that survive, nor the most intelligent that survives. It is the one that us most adaptable to change.”
Charles Darwin
English Naturalist, Geologist and Biologist
Therefore, businesses that understood cloud computing transition and the future of work survived during the Coronavirus pandemic. And those who resisted the change slowly faded away; in terms of revenue generation.
Cloud computing offers access to remote working, better client services, diminished overhead expenses, and a chance to keep up with the competition. It proved and still is a part of phenomenal growth for every business. But the transition to cloud computing isn’t as easy as it seems. Every company should address the transition challenges in cloud computing and seek efficient ways to adopt it.
During the migration of legacy systems to cloud computing, businesses face some challenges, such as:
Excessive Amount of Cloud Options:
A wide variety of cloud platforms are available with several different services running on them. Therefore, it becomes overwhelming for many businesses to find the better option. AWS, Microsoft, and Google are ruling the market the market
Financial Cost:
For the majority of businesses, the cost of migrating to cloud solutions looks like expensive work. Even though there is increased efficiency, streamlined processes, and lower administrative costs, it still looks like a pricey competition.
Shortage of Skills:
The skill gap in cybersecurity slows cloud migration up to 40%. The complexity of cloud transition demotivates many businesses to migrate. Finding a skillful person to manage the transition efficiently is a hard job.
85% of business will become “Cloud-First” by the end of 2025.
– Gartner
3 Best Practices for Transition to Cloud Computing
That said, a report from McKinsey confirms that 61% of large enterprises that shifted to cloud computing during the digital transformation era reported increasing their revenue by 25%.
Even though there are several transition challenges in cloud computing, the migration process can become more manageable by following effective practices. Here are the top 3 practices businesses need to incorporate when
migrating to cloud solutions
1. Finalize Which Cloud Service to Opt For
The cloud computing growth rate is phenomenal. But identifying the best cloud service provider is a challenge for many.
Currently, many cloud services are available with different virtual machines, containers, IoT device management, block storage, etc. Therefore, it becomes hard for businesses to finalize the most appropriate cloud service plan they can choose. A single mistake can put their business in jeopardy with less ability to use the services effectively. Many organizations fail to handle cloud services according to their workload systematically.
Technology has an enormous impact on the fundamental cornerstone social institutions. However, at the end of the day, it will create an efficient mechanism by which businesses can deploy these cornerstones.
Thomas M. Koulopoulos
Founder of Delphi Group
The best course of action is to consider relevant factors beforehand, for instance, the type of service cloud they need, their budget, ability to effectively manage and deploy workloads, and monitoring of the services.
2. Consider Cloud Transition Cost and Beyond
The cost models when transitioning to cloud computing are challenging for many businesses. It often changes dramatically. They need to consider the cost while migrating to such an ecosystem. The most convenient model allows organizations to pay as it goes.
But other costs are a torment! For instance, a cloud service provider charges fees when the customer moves the data out of the cloud. They also charge fees when the customer requires access to security and monitoring tools. Therefore, a detailed assessment is necessary to evaluate all the costs, services, and cloud solutions before proceeding.
3. Get All Stakeholders Onboard
Transition to cloud computing solutions becomes more manageable when all the stakeholders are on the same page. The technical practitioners will help in managing the cloud environment. They will support the migration to the cloud while managing the permanent and temporary expenses.
Over 95% of the digital workload will get deployed on cloud-native platforms by 2025.
Each cloud transition journey is unique on its own. To get ahead of the transition challenges in cloud computing, businesses need to systematically evaluate every factor – such as cloud service usage, assigning cloud resources to the various parts of the company, and the growing rate of the cloud environment.
Businesses must also keep track of current trends that are driving continuous cloud migrations for SMEs and enterprises. It might help them in making future cloud-specific decisions.
Are you ready to face the challenges and effectively transition to the cloud computing world? Contact us today to get a clear picture of your business and its future with cloud solutions.
If you're in BFSI (Banking, Financial Services, and Insurance), standing still isn't an option.
Future of Technology
Related
blogs
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence