https://netsoltech.com/products/wholesale-finance
Wholesale Finance
Master wholesale
finance operations with AI
Gain a competitive edge by automating your wholesale finance and floor planning operations effortlessly.
The world's leading brands are powered by NETSOL
Why NETSOL
Power your
supply chain for wholesale finance
and floor planning
Gain access to top-tier wholesale finance software and provide your dealers, distributors and auditors with unmatched user experiences. Streamline processes, manage risk, reduce costs, increase dealer engagement and improve customer satisfaction in wholesale financing. Intuitive designs and custom workflow automation accelerate processes by eliminating bottlenecks. Users can navigate the platform easily, enhancing productivity and streamlining operations.
Advanced floor planning
Utilize powerful floor planning tools for complete contract lifecycle management, resulting in real-time business intelligence and enhanced collaboration.
Customizable solutions
Our system is highly flexible – designed with configuration and not code in mind, enabling lenders to tailor loans for specific clients and risk factors.
Seamless compliance
We offer an unparalleled experience with easy customization to meet tax and accounting requirements in any jurisdiction, fully adhering to all compliance requirements.
Versatile financing
Our wholesale financing solutions support both asset and non-asset-based financing. Further, new products can be easily designed and setup in the system.
Assets managed globally
Successful implementations
Customers worldwide
Countries served
End-to-end control and
built-in intelligence
Inventory stock auditing
Efficiently manage and track inventory with unparalleled accuracy and speed. With zero manual processes and real-time insights, automate auditing procedures, detect discrepancies instantly and optimize stock management for your wholesale inventory financing. Our mobile app brings the same level of accuracy to your workforce's fingertips, enabling on-the-spot scheduling, asset tracking, picture verification, and swift submission of audit results.
Distributor OEM and dealer interface
Empower your business partners with a portal that delivers more visibility and control over their inventories – with minimal effort. OEMs and dealers can view their use of floorplan, stock status and financial conditions, while entering settlement requests or relocating assets. Extend the same capabilities through cross-platform compatibility, empowering dealers to view floorplan usage, manage settlements or relocations, and track financial conditions on the go.
Credit and risk management
Give dealers the flexibility to request a credit limit for different asset categories, as well as monitor variations and reviews of defined credit limits. Allow temporary increases in credit limits based on dealer-driven campaigns – with normal limits automatically resuming when temporary periods end.
Loan processing
Manage the lifecycle of any transaction, from the capture of asset information, credit and contract booking details. Create operating models around your specific back-office needs, for repayments, interest charging, asset tax and service charges – and apply them when credit is approved.
Disbursement management
Fully streamline the disbursement process, offering efficiency, accuracy and security at every step. Eliminate manual tasks and human errors as our advanced wholesale solutions automate disbursement workflows, ensuring timely payments and optimal fund allocation.
Final settlement
Optimize your final settlement process with our advanced wholesale finance software, designed to enhance efficiency and accuracy in every transaction. Our solution automates reconciliation, processes settlements in real-time and integrates seamlessly with your existing systems.
Future of Technology
Ready to optimize your
wholesale financing operations?
Tailor financing options to meet the diverse needs of dealers and borrowers. Whether it's floorplan financing, revolving credit lines or term loans, our technology provides flexible financing solutions to accommodate various business requirements.
Blog
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Whitepapers
The Next Era of Equipment Finance: Speed, AI & Lifecycle Control
Fraud Detection & Credit Decisioning in Digital Originations
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence
From AI ambition to intelligent automation: What brokers need next
Data migration in asset finance: Why success depends on early planning, governance, and the right delivery model
Podcast
Data Migration in Asset Finance: Strategies, Pitfalls & Real-World Insights
Fair lending vs. faster lending: How human-in-the-loop AI improves speed without compromising ethics
Featured
reads & insights
Stay informed with the latest from NETSOL. Thought leadership, product updates, industry perspectives, and company news, all in one place.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your inbox.