https://netsoltech.com/services/cloud-services
Cloud Services
Scale your business with
agile cloud solutions
Reduce your costs and increase efficiency with multi-cloud networking and security.
The world's leading brands are powered by NETSOL
Why NETSOL
Unleash the power of possibility with proven
cloud services
Agility and scalability are no longer luxuries but necessities for modern enterprises. NETSOL cloud services offer a revolutionary approach to IT infrastructure, empowering businesses to thrive and eliminate the need for expensive on-premise hardware with unmatched scalability, agility, security lower costs and reliability. With our cloud backup disaster recovery protocol, ditch your outdated legacy infrastructure, unlock the cloud's power and build a future-proof IT foundation.
Market expansion
The global cloud computing market grew from $24.63 billion in 2010 to $156.4 billion in 2020.
Cloud challenge
42% of CTOs and CIOs consider cloud waste the top challenge during and after migration.
Cost management
Over 58% of businesses struggle to manage their cloud costs for their increasing workload.
Cloud investment
Leading IT businesses and enterprises invest $8 out of every $10 in cloud services.
70% more capabilities
Over 70% of enterprises get their AI capabilities from cloud-based software, while 65% create AI applications with cloud services.
4.7x more operating margins
Eco-friendly business enjoys 4.7x operating margins with AI in the cloud, reducing carbon emissions by up to 64%.
50% workload migration
Over 54% of enterprises moved to the cloud for disaster recovery and 50% for migrating workload management.
Future of Technology
AI-enabled insights on
NETSOL delivers risk-driven security strategies to protect your data, ensure compliance, and enhance operational agility.
Managed cloud services
for modern
enterprises
Managed services
Managing a cloud environment is complex, but with managed services, enterprises can outsource management and maintenance, running cloud services smoothly, securely and cost-effectively. Streamline cloud operations, enhance security and scale cloud solutions with us
Cloud infrastructure services
You need a prominent foundation with a secure cloud infrastructure and essential resources to run your applications seamlessly. We empower your cloud infrastructure by safely deploying and migrating your cloud and optimizing resource provisioning.
Development & integrations
Navigating the complexities of building and integrating cloud-native applications can be challenging. With NETSOL, leverage the power of AI for secure cloud-native development, API integration, containerization, DevOps expertise and microservices architecture.
SaaS development
Deploying agile, scalable, cost-effective SaaS applications requires expertise and inventive solutions. NETSOL is ready to empower your SaaS journey with cloud-native architecture backed by a security-first approach, API design and integration services.
DevOps
DevOps is crucial for optimizing the development and delivery of cloud applications. NETSOL is here to resolve the complex process of DevOps by bridging the gap with CI/CD pipeline automation, IaC, cloud-based monitoring and logging, and security integration.
MLOps & model management
The journey from creating a model to deploying it in production can be challenging. NETSOL, with expertise in MLOps, helps you navigate this critical stage by streamlining the experimentation, model versioning and governance, and model monitoring.
NETSOL + Amazon Web Services
Where innovation meets impact!
Discover how our certified expertise can drive your success with cutting-edge cloud solutions. Experience excellence in innovation and scalability with NETSOL's AWS-powered services.
Ready to get
started?
Explore how NETSOL leverages AI for smarter policy and strategy making processes.
Blog
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Whitepapers
The Next Era of Equipment Finance: Speed, AI & Lifecycle Control
Fraud Detection & Credit Decisioning in Digital Originations
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence
From AI ambition to intelligent automation: What brokers need next
Data migration in asset finance: Why success depends on early planning, governance, and the right delivery model
Podcast
Data Migration in Asset Finance: Strategies, Pitfalls & Real-World Insights
Fair lending vs. faster lending: How human-in-the-loop AI improves speed without compromising ethics
Featured
reads & insights
Stay informed with the latest from NETSOL. Thought leadership, product updates, industry perspectives, and company news, all in one place.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your inbox.