https://netsoltech.com/services/data-engineering
Data Engineering
Robust
data engineering services & solutions
With AWS services for data engineering, build scalable data pipelines for your business growth.
The world's leading brands are powered by NETSOL
Future of Technology
Generate actionable insights through mature
data platforms
Due to data trust issues, limited data platforms and inadequate knowledge, businesses struggle to deliver timely insights. With data engineering and analytics services, enterprises can leverage advisory and operational benefits, focusing on reducing ownership costs and enhancing sustainability longevity. NETSOL offers AWS services for data engineering, extracting data from various platforms while leveraging intelligent cataloging through trust testing and deployment and accelerating your data efforts with the AI and ML partnership.
Data losses
Globally, businesses lose over $15 million yearly due to poor data quality and management.
Market surge
The global data market is expected to surge to $274.3 billion by 2026,
Data lakes
The data lakes market is expected to hit a high of $20.04 billion by 2028.
Engineering growth
The data engineering market will double to $89.02 billion by 2027 from $43.04 billion in 2022.
$67.4B blockchain increase
The global blockchain market is ready to hit $67.4 billion by 2026, infusing data security and traceability in data engineering.
70% scalability
By integrating low code / no code technologies in data engineering, businesses can witness 70% scalability of their data pipeline.
$3.1T more sustainability
The sector can ensure annual savings of $3.1 trillion with data-driven environmental monitoring by 2030.
Actionable insights with the right
data strategy
NETSOL delivers risk-driven security strategies to protect your data, ensure compliance, and enhance operational agility.
AI-driven intelligence built on robust
data engineering foundations
Data migration strategy, development & implementation
With a proper data migration strategy, enterprises can assess their data, test and validate it, and transform the information into valuable insights. Development and implementation tools assist in change management while implementing post and pre-migration validation with continuous support.
Data wrangling & integration services
Data analytics engineering services can tackle the data wrangling challenge using a diversified data source, and converts it into valuable business insights. We combine it by extracting the data via unique sources, harmonizing it, and streamlining the workflow.
Data lakes, data warehouse & data marts
The algorithm of data engineering relies on robust data storage solutions, where data lakes, warehouses and marts play a significant role. Choose the right solution with us based on your cost, accessibility and data structure needs.
Data analytics, reporting & visualization
Infuse data analytical solutions in your business to extract the true meaning of the data using advanced analytics tools. Get tailored and automated reports with data reporting, where you can add an interactive dashboard for enhanced data visualization.
ETL, ELT, data pipeline, workflow & orchestration
Extract, Transform, Load (ETL) and Extract, Load, Transform (ELT) are data movement techniques that assist businesses in transforming their data into meaningful insights. With modern data pipelines, enterprises can effectively manage data volume and complexity.
Data modeling, optimization & architecture
The foundation of data engineering lies in data modeling, optimization and architecture. From defining data relationships to ensuring performance considerations and strategic data designing, NETSOL empowers you to handle the process with brilliance.
Ready to get
started?
Explore how NETSOL develops a comprehensive data architecture design, strengthening your data infrastructure with data engineering services.
Blog
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Whitepapers
The Next Era of Equipment Finance: Speed, AI & Lifecycle Control
Fraud Detection & Credit Decisioning in Digital Originations
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence
From AI ambition to intelligent automation: What brokers need next
Data migration in asset finance: Why success depends on early planning, governance, and the right delivery model
Podcast
Data Migration in Asset Finance: Strategies, Pitfalls & Real-World Insights
Fair lending vs. faster lending: How human-in-the-loop AI improves speed without compromising ethics
Featured
reads & insights
Stay informed with the latest from NETSOL. Thought leadership, product updates, industry perspectives, and company news, all in one place.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your inbox.