https://netsoltech.com/services/information-security
Information Security
Advanced information security services
Securing your digital world with AI-enabled threat-ready technology.
The world's leading brands are powered by NETSOL
Future of Technology
Fortify your business against digital threats with
information security
NETSOL delivers risk-driven security strategies to protect your data, ensure compliance, and enhance operational agility.
Ransomware surge
2,809 ransomware attacks were recorded in 2022, surging to 5,070 in 2023, with a 55% substantial increase
Cybersecurity costs
Without robust security services in information security, businesses lose millions in cyber-attacks yearly.
Data breach costs
The global average data breach cost hit an all-time high at $4.45 billion in 2023, an increase of 15% in three years.
AI defeats threats
66% of AI adopters confirmed Generative AI helped predict zero-day attacks and reduce false positives.
48% more crucial
SMBs and enterprises now believe that AI will be essential in protecting against cybersecurity risks and threats.
$2.09M saved per company
Cybersecurity tools backed with AI can bring savings of over $2.09 million per company in the United States.
80% more success
More than 40% of organizations reported a success ratio of over 80% for their AI-enabled cybersecurity tools
AI-enabled insights on information security services
Solving real problems in
via
stringent security mechanisms
Assessment & identification
Risk assessment and vulnerability identification are essential in the information security sector. It helps evaluate the financial threats within the IT ecosystem, identifying potential dangers, compliance penalties and possible business losses.
Enterprise security & IT risk
Enterprise security audits and IT risk assessments are the first defense mechanisms in protecting critical data and IT assets, helping organizations identify susceptibilities and implement adequate controls to mitigate potential threats.
Prevention & monitoring
Traditional security measures often struggle to keep pace with sophisticated cyber threats, losing millions of dollars in cyber-attacks. NETSOL assists in preventing and monitoring your ecosystem, ensuring reliability with a solid defense against malicious attacks.
SIEM & SOAR implementations
SIEM and SOAR streamline security operations centers by enhancing their capabilities to detect, analyze, respond to and prevent cybersecurity incidents. With AI in information security, enterprises can leverage improved threat detection and use dynamic responses against malicious attacks.
Managed (SoC)
Unlike traditional in-house SOCs, managed SOCs provide comprehensive security, including round-the-clock monitoring and incident response. By leveraging cutting-edge AI tools, we help enterprises automate threat response and improve prediction capabilities.
Cloud security
Businesses are increasingly migrating their operations to cloud environments, where the shift is bringing unique challenges in safeguarding data, applications and infrastructure from cyber threats. There is a need to embrace advanced IT security solutions.
Let's talk about
what's next
Rethink what your company can do with the right partner by your side.
Blog
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Whitepapers
The Next Era of Equipment Finance: Speed, AI & Lifecycle Control
Fraud Detection & Credit Decisioning in Digital Originations
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence
From AI ambition to intelligent automation: What brokers need next
Data migration in asset finance: Why success depends on early planning, governance, and the right delivery model
Podcast
Data Migration in Asset Finance: Strategies, Pitfalls & Real-World Insights
Fair lending vs. faster lending: How human-in-the-loop AI improves speed without compromising ethics
Featured
reads & insights
Stay informed with the latest from NETSOL. Thought leadership, product updates, industry perspectives, and company news, all in one place.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your inbox.