https://netsoltech.com/solutions/automotive-finance
Automotive Finance
AI-enabled
automotive finance software
We provide superior technology solutions to the biggest names in the global automotive industry.
The world's leading brands are powered by NETSOL
Driving change in the
automotive space worldwide
Our cutting-edge technologies help global automakers, auto captives, and finance firms thrive, leveraging 40+ years of expertise in AI-enabled loan origination, contract management, and digital retail solutions tailored for the automotive sector.
Industry leaders
NETSOL has made significant investments to understand the evolving requirements of the global automotive industry.
Seamless solutions
We empower lenders, dealerships and borrowers alike to navigate the financing and digital retail journey seamlessly.
AI-enabled operations
Our AI-driven solutions power the automotive industry with robust analytics, seamless integration capabilities and advanced automation features.
End-to-end products
We offer powerful end-to-end automotive finance software as well as easy-to-integrate API-first solutions for auto finance, alongside seamless digital retail.
Assets managed globally
Successful implementations
Customers worldwide
Countries served
End-to-end control and
built-in intelligence
Commercial and consumer lending
Our innovative equipment leasing software is engineered to empower OEMs with streamlined financing processes, enhanced customer experiences and unparalleled efficiency. From end-to-end finance and leasing to digital retail, our solutions are designed to seamlessly integrate into your operations, unlocking new avenues for growth and profitability.
OEMs
Big ticket finance
Give dealers the flexibility to request a credit limit for different asset categories, as well as monitor variations and reviews of defined credit limits. Allow temporary increases in credit limits based on dealer-driven campaigns – with normal limits automatically resuming when temporary periods end.
SCI Lease Corp enhances lease management processes with NETSOL
"SCI Lease Corp has recognized the success that NETSOL has had in other markets and we believe their platforms are in line with SCI Lease Corp’s commitment to bring transformative technology and services to the leasing marketplace. Working with NETSOL going forward will enhance our lease management processes, allowing us to better meet our customers’ expectations and provide additional bandwidth to expand our automotive OEM business."
Alan H. Bird
President and Chief Executive Leader of SCI Lease Corp
Future of Technology
Experience accelerated innovation
for your auto operations
Explore how our automotive finance and leasing software enables the global automotive finance and leasing industry to lower operational expenses, enhance risk evaluation, expedite processing and response times and reach a wider array of customers.
Blog
Broker-Lender Alignment: The Future of Asset Finance Success
From manual friction to intelligent workflows: The next step for equipment finance
Whitepapers
The Next Era of Equipment Finance: Speed, AI & Lifecycle Control
Fraud Detection & Credit Decisioning in Digital Originations
Cyber resilience in APAC: Why 2026 demands more than traditional defence
From AI ambition to intelligent automation: What brokers need next
Data migration in asset finance: Why success depends on early planning, governance, and the right delivery model
Podcast
Data Migration in Asset Finance: Strategies, Pitfalls & Real-World Insights
Fair lending vs. faster lending: How human-in-the-loop AI improves speed without compromising ethics
Featured
reads & insights
Stay informed with the latest from NETSOL. Thought leadership, product updates, industry perspectives, and company news, all in one place.
Subscribe to our newsletter to get the latest news in your inbox.