https://netsoltech.com/terms-of-use
Website Terms of Use
Welcome to the NetSol Technologies, Inc. (” Netsol “) Web site (” Web Site “). NetSol provides and makes available this Web Site subject to the following terms of use (“Terms”). These Terms explain a contractual agreement between you (” user ,” ” you ,” ” your “) and NetSol regarding your use of this Web Site. You should print a copy of these Terms for your records. Please note, however, that NetSol may update and amend these Terms from time to time as NetSol deems necessary in its sole discretion.
1. WHAT YOU SHOULD KNOW and HOW CHANGES CAN BE MADE
The primary goal of this Web Site is to provide you with access to information about NetSol’s businesses, facilities, services, products, and related links to meet your needs with respect to these businesses, facilities, services and products (the ” Content “). These Terms are meant to protect all of the visitors to and users of this Web Site, and your access to and use of this Web Site signifies your agreement with these Terms. DO NOT USE THIS WEB SITE IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH THESE TERMS . NetSol reserves the right, in its sole discretion, to modify, alter or otherwise update these Terms, or to change or delete any features of this Web Site, at any time. Such modifications, alterations, and updates to the Terms shall be effective immediately upon posting. You agree to be bound by such modified, altered and updated Terms if you access or use this Web Site after NetSol has posted notice of such modifications, alterations or updates. IF YOU DO NOT AGREE WITH ANY OF THE MODIFIED, ALTERED OR UPDATED TERMS, THEN YOU SHOULD NOT USE THIS WEB SITE AFTER SUCH MODIFICATIONS, ALTERATIONS OR UPDATES HAVE BEEN POSTED.
This Web Site will permit you to link to many other Web sites that may or may not be affiliated with this Web Site and/or with NetSol. These other linked Web sites, including the Web sites of NetSol’s affiliated companies, as well as the Web sites of NetSol’s third party content providers, merchants, business partners, sponsors and licensors (collectively the ” Providers “), may have different terms of use that are not the same as these Terms. Your access to and use of such linked Web sites through links provided on this Web Site are not governed by these Terms but, instead, are governed by the terms of use and policies of those Web sites, and NetSol disclaims any and all responsibility for your access to and use of such linked Web sites.
You should note that these Terms contain additional disclaimers and limitations on NetSol’s liability, which can be found in Sections 9 and 10 below. Please read these carefully and make sure that you understand them before continuing with your use of this Web Site.
2. PRIVACY
Registration data and certain other information about you that you may submit or provide to NetSol through this Web Site is subject to NetSol’s Privacy Policy. For more information about NetSol’s use and protection of your information, please review NetSol’s Internet Privacy Policy.
3. USE OF THIS WEB SITE and INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS
NetSol controls and (either itself and/or through its third party hosts) operates this Web Site. All Content on this Web Site, including, but not limited to, text, images, illustrations, graphics, logos, digital downloads, data, software, headers, icons, scripts, audio clips, and video clips, is the property of NetSol or its Providers, and is protected by copyrights, trademarks, service marks, and/or other intellectual property rights (which are governed by and subject to United States and international copyright laws and treaty provisions, privacy and publicity laws, and communication regulations and statutes). The Content is owned and controlled by NetSol, its affiliated or related entities, or the Providers that have licensed or otherwise made available their content or the right to market their products and/or services to NetSol. Content on this Web Site or any Web site owned, operated, licensed or controlled by the Providers is solely for your personal, non-commercial use, and may not be used in any manner that is likely to cause confusion among NetSol’s customers, other users of this Web Site, or the general public. You agree to abide by all additional copyright notices, information, or restrictions contained in or with any Content.
You may download or make a single copy of any Content contained on this Web Site solely for your personal, non-commercial use, consistent with these Terms, provided that you maintain all copyright and other notices contained in or with such Content. Except as otherwise specified above, you may not copy, reproduce, duplicate, republish, upload, post, transmit, distribute, sell and/or exploit the Content in any way (including by e-mail or other electronic means) for commercial use without the prior written consent of NetSol or the Providers. You may request consent by faxing a request to NetSol’s Legal Department at 818.222.9197818.222.9197. Your modification of the Content, use of the Content on any other linked Web site or networked computer environment, or use of the Content for any purpose other than personal, non-commercial use, without the prior written consent of NetSol or the Providers, violates the intellectual property rights and proprietary rights of the Content owners and is strictly prohibited.
You may not use any registered or unregistered trademarks, service marks, copyrighted materials or other proprietary information or intellectual property appearing on this Web Site, including, but not limited to, any logos, images or characters, and also including any meta tags or similar code or hidden text or elements containing such information or property, without the express written consent of the owner of the mark or copyright. You may not frame any trademarks, service marks, copyrights, logos, images, text, or other proprietary information or intellectual property of NetSol, or otherwise incorporate into another Web site any of the Content or other materials on this Web Site, without NetSol’s express prior written consent. You may not deep link to any page of portions of this Web Site without NetSol’s prior written consent. You may, however, create or provide a hypertext link or hyperlink to the home page of this Web Site provided that you do not make or attribute to NetSol, its affiliated or related entities or Providers any false, misleading, defamatory, libelous, derogatory, or offensive statements. Any such link cannot include any logos, graphics or trademarks of NetSol, its affiliated or related entities or Providers without NetSol’s express prior written consent.
Violation of trademark and copyright laws (“Infringement”) may result in significant civil liability or criminal penalties under United States and/or international copyright and trademark laws. You recognize that any reproduction or use of Content, copyrights, trademarks, service marks, or other intellectual property on this Web Site, except as authorized by these Terms, is considered intentional Infringement.
4. USER’S RESPONSIBILITIES
You warrant and represent to NetSol that you will not use this Web Site for any purpose that is unlawful, illegal or prohibited by these Terms, including, without limitation, the sending, posting, transmitting, displaying, distributing, or knowingly receiving of or searching for any threatening, harassing, libelous, defamatory, obscene, scandalous, inflammatory, sexually oriented, pornographic, or profane material, content or images, or other images, content or messages that might be considered lewd, lascivious, excessively violent or otherwise offensive. If you violate any of these Terms, your permission to use this Web Site immediately terminates without the necessity of any notice. NetSol, at its sole discretion, retains the right to deny access to this Web Site to anyone for any reason, including for violation of these Terms. Some of these types of violations are more fully described below in Section 5.
You are solely responsible for the content, accuracy and your use of your Information, and NetSol merely acts as a passive conduit for your online distribution and publication of your Information. As used in these Terms, ” Information ” means any information or data that you submit to or through this Web Site and any information or data that is generated by this Web Site as a result of your use of or access to this Web Site. Certain special rules and restrictions may apply to your Personally Identifiable Information. For more information regarding these special rules and restrictions please review NetSol’s Internet Privacy Policy.
You agree that any Information that you provide will be true, accurate, current and complete. If you provide any Information that is untrue, inaccurate, not current or incomplete (or NetSol has reasonable grounds to suspect that such Information is untrue, inaccurate, not current or incomplete), NetSol has the right to suspend or terminate your access and activity relating to, and to refuse any and all current or future use of, this Web Site.
5. PROHIBITED ACTIVITIES
You are specifically prohibited from any use of this Web Site, and you agree not to use or permit others to use this Web Site, for any of the following:
(a) take any action that imposes an unreasonable or disproportionately large load on, or waste of valuable time for, the Web Site’s infrastructure or resources, including, but not limited to, sending or promoting the distribution of “spam,” “junk mail,” chain letters, or other such unsolicited or unlawful mass e-mailing techniques;
(b) disclose to, or share with, any unauthorized third parties the ID’s, assigned confirmation numbers and/or passwords, or use the ID’s, assigned confirmation numbers and/or passwords for any unauthorized purpose, or otherwise allow or facilitate others to gain access to NetSol’s information technology systems, environments, networks, files, data or accounts through the use of the ID’s, assigned confirmation numbers and/or passwords;
(c) access or attempt to access NetSol’s information technology systems, environments, networks, files, data or accounts to which express authorization has not been obtained (including access to data not intended for You), or log into a server or account that you are not authorized to access;
(d) attempt to decipher, decompile, disassemble, modify, remove or reverse engineer any of the software or HTML code comprising or in any way making up a part of this Web Site;
(e) interfere with, disrupt, disable or damage (or attempt to interfere with, disrupt, disable or damage), in an unauthorized manner, the use or operation of this Web Site or NetSol’s, its affiliated or related entities’ or the Providers’ systems, equipment or applications, or service to any user, host, or network, including by use of any programs, scripts, commands, viruses, worms, web bugs, harmful code, Trojan horses, other contaminants, or otherwise. This includes “denial of service” attacks, “flooding” of networks, deliberate attempts to overload a service or to burden excessively a service’s resources, attempts to “crash” a host, and/or modifying or rerouting any Content or services provided at this Web Site;
(f) attempt to circumvent or subvert system or network security (i.e., authentication) mechanisms, or probe the security of any system, network, or account, associated or used in conjunction with this Web Site;
(g) upload, post, e-mail or otherwise transmit any Information, Content, or proprietary rights that you do not have a right to transmit under the Terms, any law or other contractual or fiduciary relationships; and/or
(h) use any robot, spider, intelligent agent, meta-searching, other automatic device, or manual process to search, monitor or copy NetSol’s Web Site pages or the Content in violation of the Terms or without NetSol’s prior written permission, provided that generally available third party Web browsers such as Netscape Navigator® and Microsoft Internet Explorer® may be used without such permission.
6. INFORMATION POSTED TO WEB SITE
With respect to all Information you elect to post to publicly accessible areas of the Web Site, you agree that NetSol has the right to use, reproduce, copy, modify, publish, distribute, perform and display such Information (in whole or part) on worldwide basis; provided that such use is in accordance with the terms of NetSol’s Internet Privacy Policy.
You acknowledge and agree that NetSol may preserve Information, and may also disclose Information if required to do so by law or in the good faith belief that such preservation or disclosure is reasonably necessary to: (a) comply with legal process; (b) enforce the Terms; (c) respond to claims that any Information violates the rights of third-parties; or (d) protect the rights, property, or personal safety of NetSol’s business, employees, Providers, affiliated or related entities, users, and/or the public.7. LINKS TO THIRD PARTY WEB SITES
7. LINKS TO THIRD PARTY WEB SITES
This Web Site may contain links to third-party or Provider Web sites not under NetSol’s control or operation (the ” Linked Sites “). The links will let you leave this Web Site and be directed to and access the Linked Sites, which you access is at your own risk. You acknowledge that NetSol provides the Linked Sites for your convenience and information only. NetSol does not endorse, nor is it responsible for, any content, information, or other related materials, products or services found at any such Linked Sites or any links contained within such Linked Sites, whether or not NetSol is affiliated with the owners of such Linked Sites. Except as otherwise specified in these Terms or pursuant to NetSol’s express written consent, you may not establish a hyperlink to this Web Site from your Web site or the Linked Sites, or provide any links that state or imply any sponsorship or endorsement of your Web site or the Linked Sites by NetSol or the Providers.
8. DEALINGS WITH ADVERTISERS
Your correspondence or business dealings with, or participation in promotions of, advertisers found on or through this Web Site or any Linked Sites, including payment for and delivery of related goods or services, and any other terms, conditions, warranties, or representations associated with such dealings, are solely between you and such advertisers. You agree that NetSol (and its affiliated or related entities and the Providers) shall neither be responsible nor liable for any loss or damage incurred by you as the result of any such dealings or as the result of the presence of such advertisers on or through this Web Site or the Linked Sites.
9. NO WARRANTIES
All content, products and services on this web site are provided “as is” and without warranties of any kind, either express or implied. other than those warranties which, under the u.s. laws applicable to these terms, are implied by law and are incapable of exclusion, restriction, or modification, netsol disclaims any and all warranties, express or implied, including, but not limited to, implied warranties of merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose
Neither netsol, its affiliated or related entities, nor the providers, nor any person involved in the creation, production, hosting and/or distribution of this web site, warrant that the functions, features or services contained in this web site will be uninterrupted or error-free, that defects will be corrected, or that the server that makes the content available will be free of viruses or other harmful components. the content that you access on this web site is provided solely for your convenience and information only. netsol does not warrant or make any representations regarding the results that may be obtained from the use of this web site, or as to the reliability, accuracy or currency of any content, service, and/or merchandise provided or acquired pursuant to your use of this web site.
Netsol is a distributor, and not a publisher, of the information and content at this web site. netsol has no more editorial control over such information and content than does a public library or newsstand. any opinions, advice, statements, services, offers, or other information expressed or made available by third parties or providers (including in the linked sites) are those of the respective authors or distributors of such information and content.
Your use of this web site is at your own risk. you (and not netsol) assume the entire cost of all necessary servicing (including, without limitation, your internet connection) and repair or correction of your computer, network and/or system.
10. LIMITATION OF LIABILITY
In no event shall netsol, its affiliated or related entities or providers, nor any of its or their respective officers, directors, employees or agents, or any person or entity involved in the creation, production, distribution and hosting of this web site, be liable for any indirect, consequential, incidental, special, punitive or exemplary damages, whether arising under contract, warranty, or tort (including negligence) or any other theory of liability, regardless of whether netsol (or its affiliated or related entities or providers) knew or should have known of the possibility of such damages, including, without limitation, from the use or attempted use of this web site or any other linked site.
NETSOL'S liability, and the liability of NETSOL'S affiliated or related entities and/or providers, to you or any third parties in any circumstance, is limited to the lesser of (a) the amount of fees, if any, you pay to NETSOL in the 12 months prior to the action giving rise to liability, or (b) $500. some states may not allow for the limitation of liability described above, so the foregoing limitation may not apply to you.
By way of example only, netsol and related persons and entities shall not be responsible or liable for any claim or damage arising from failure of performance, error, omission, interruption, deletion, defect, delay in operation, computer virus, theft, destruction, unauthorized access to or alteration of personal records, or the reliance upon or use of content, information, opinions or other materials appearing on this web site. moreover, you expressly acknowledge and agree that netsol is not liable or responsible for any defamatory, offensive, or illegal conduct of other users or third parties.
The limitation of liability reflects the allocation of risk between the parties. the limitations specified in this section 10 will survive and apply even if any limited remedy specified in these terms is found to have failed of its essential purpose. the limitations of liability provided in these terms inure to the benefit of netsol and the providers, and to all respective officers, directors, employees, representatives, attorneys, and agents.
11. GOVERNING LAW AND JURISDICTION
NetSol operates this Web Site (excluding Linked Sites, over which it has no authority or control) from its offices within the State of California (which may be subject to change from time to time at NetSol’s sole discretion). The Web Site can be accessed from all 50 states, as well as from other countries around the world. As each of these places has laws that may differ from those of California, by accessing this Web Site, you agree that these Terms and your use of the Web Site shall be governed in all respect by the internal substantive laws of the State of California, without regard to any conflict of laws provisions, and shall not be governed by the United Nations Convention on the International Sale of Goods. You further agree to submit to the exclusive jurisdiction and venue in the state and federal courts located in the State of New Jersey for all disputes, cases and controversies regarding this Web Site, your use of this Web Site, and your relationship with NetSol. NetSol makes no representation that materials on this Web Site are appropriate or available for use in other locations, and accessing them from territories where the Content is illegal is prohibited. Those who choose to access this Web Site from other locations do so at their own risk and are responsible for compliance with local laws, including laws regarding the transmission of technical data exported from the United States or the country in which you reside.
12. INDEMNIFICATION
NetSol reserves the right to report any wrongdoing, if and when it becomes aware of it, to any applicable government or law enforcement agencies. You agree to indemnify, defend and hold NetSol and the Providers, its and their officers, directors, employees, affiliated or related entities, agents, licensors, and suppliers, harmless from and against any and all claims, demands, actions, costs, liabilities, losses and damages of any kind (including attorneys’ fees) resulting from your use of this Web Site, your breach of any provision of these Terms and/or any negligent acts, omissions or intentional wrongdoing by You. Any such indemnification shall be conditioned on NetSol: (a) notifying you in writing of any such claim, demand, action, cost, liability, loss or threat of any thereof; (b) cooperating with you in the defense or settlement thereof; and (c) allowing you to control such defense or settlement. NetSol shall be entitled to participate in such defense at its own cost and expense.
13. MESSAGE BOARDS
In the event that NetSol provides message boards, web logs or blogs, or discussion forums on this Web Site (the ” Forums “), you agree to use the Forums only for personal purposes in a noncommercial manner. You shall not, without NetSol’s express approval, distribute or otherwise publish any material containing any solicitation of funds, advertising, or written solicitation for goods and services. You agree that any uploaded materials may be republished without compensation to you or any other person or entity. In addition, you warrant that all moral rights in any uploaded materials have been waived. While NetSol does not and cannot review every message posted by you or any other user in the Forums, and although NetSol is not responsible for these messages, NetSol reserves the right (but not the obligation) to delete, move, or edit messages that it, in its sole discretion, deems abusive, defamatory, obscene, in violation of copyright or trademark laws, in violation of these terms, or otherwise unacceptable. NetSol does not endorse any information that may be posted on this Web Site through the Forums.
14. OTHER GENERAL PROVISIONS
These Terms are for the benefit of NetSol and the Providers, its and their officers, directors, employees, affiliated or related entities, agents, licensors, and suppliers. Each of these individuals or entities shall have the right to assert and enforce these Terms directly against you on its (or their own) behalf. NetSol’s failure to act with respect to a breach by you or others does not waive NetSol’s right to act with respect to subsequent or similar breaches.
If any provision of these Terms is held to be invalid or unenforceable, such provision will be struck and the remaining provisions enforced. Headings are for reference purposes only.
You and NetSol are dealing at arms’ length, creating a commercial relationship. NetSol is not your Agent or your fiduciary. Many of NetSol’s businesses and facilities may be independently owned and operated by independent franchisees and licensees. In such cases, these franchisees and licensees manage and operate the facilities, and they are the employers of all employees and contractors who work at the facilities. These franchisees are independent contractors, and no agency, partnership, joint venture, employee-employer or franchiser-franchisee relationship is intended or created by these Terms.
The provisions and conditions of these Terms, and each obligation referenced herein, represent the entire Agreement between NetSol (including the Providers), its affiliated or related entities, and You, and supersede any prior agreements or understandings not incorporated herein. In the event that any inconsistencies exist between these Terms and any future published terms of use or understanding, the last published Terms shall prevail.
NETSOL RESERVES ANY RIGHTS NOT EXPRESSLY GRANTED OR STATED IN THESE TERMS .
Registered Company Details
NetSol Technologies Europe Ltd (trading as NetSol Technologies). Registered Office Address: Planet House, North Heath Lane, Horsham RH12 5QE West Sussex England. Registered in England No 1998080. VAT:826611533