https://netsoltech.com/about-us/privacy-policy-ccpa
Privacy Policy CCPA
Categories of Personal Information We Collect:
The California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”) obliges us to reveal certain information regarding categories of personal info that we collect. We gather the listed categories of personal information (subject to applicable legal requirements and restrictions):
Name, contact information and other identifiers: identifiers such as a name, phone number, email address, online identifier, IP address, government-issued identification numbers or other similar identifiers.
Geolocation information: geographic location information about a particular user or device.
Employment data: professional or employment-related information.
Categories of Personal Information Disclosed.
CCPA requires that we disclose the categories of personal information that we may reveal for a commercial purpose. In general, we may disclose the following categories of personal information in support of our business purposes identified above:
Name, contact information and other identifiers
Geolocation information
Employment information
California Residents
This section provides information for California residents as per the California Consumer Privacy Act (“CCPA”), that obliges us to provide residents of California specific information regarding how we manage their personal information, online or offline. However, this section does not address or apply to our management of publicly available information which is made legally available by state or federal governments or other personal information that is subject to an exemption under the CCPA.
California Residents' Rights. California residents have been granted particular rights by the California law and imposes restrictions on certain business practices as mentioned below.
Do-not-sell: California residents have the right to opt-out of the sale of their personal information. If you are a California resident, you can submit an opt-out request here. We do not sell personal information about residents who we know are younger than 16 years old without opt-in consent.
Notice before collection: We are required to notify California residents, at or before the point of collection of their personal information, the categories of personal information collected and the purposes for which such information is used.
Request to delete: California residents have the right to request, at no charge, deletion of their personal information that we have collected about them and to have such personal information deleted, except where an exemption applies. We will respond to verifiable requests received from California residents as required by law.
Request to know: California residents have the right to request and, subject to certain exemptions, receive a copy of the specific pieces of personal information that we have collected about them in the prior 12 months and to have this delivered, free of charge, either (a) by mail or (b) electronically in a portable and, to the extent technically feasible, readily useable format that allows the individual to transmit this information to another entity without hindrance. California residents also have the right to request that we provide them certain information about how we have handled their personal information in the prior 12 months, including:
categories of personal information collected;
categories of sources of personal information;
business and/or commercial purposes for collecting and selling their personal information;
categories of third parties/with whom we have disclosed or shared their personal information;
categories of personal information that we have disclosed or shared with a third party for a business purpose; and
categories of third parties to whom the residents' personal information has been sold and the specific categories of personal information sold to each category of third party.
California residents may make a Request to Know up to twice every 12 months, at no charge. We will respond to verifiable requests received from California residents as required by law.
Discrimination and financial incentives: The CCPA prohibits discrimination against California residents for exercising their rights under the CCPA. A business may offer financial incentives for the collection, sale or deletion of California residents’ personal information, where the incentive is not unjust, unreasonable, coercive or usurious, and is made available in compliance with applicable transparency, informed consent, and opt-out requirements. California residents have the right to be notified of any financial incentive offers and their material terms, the right to opt-out of such incentives at any time, and may not be included in such incentives without their prior informed opt-in consent. We do not offer any such incentives at this time.
Submitting Verifiable Requests.
caleforniarequestresponedbylaw
Requests to Know and Requests to Delete may be submitted:
By email at
Loading email...
For more information about our privacy practices, contact us as mentioned above.
REQUEST TO KNOW AND REQUEST TO DELETE PAGE:
California residents (few exemptions) have the right to request the following without any charges;
Request to delete: California residents can request deletion of their personal information that we collected about them.
Request to know: California residents can request and obtain a copy of certain pieces of personal information that we collected12 months prior about them. They can also request us to provide information how we handled the personal data about them 12 months prior to request.
categories and sources of personal information collected:
business or commercial purposes for collecting and selling their personal information:
categories of third parties to whom we have disclosed their personal information for a business purpose;
categories of personal information that we have disclosed to a third party for a business purpose;
categories of third parties to whom the residents' personal information has been sold and the specific categories of personal information sold to each category.
You may submit up to two requests to know per year.